

It took me a long time to see past forever projects.

I told myself that making promises gave beginnings gravity. I labeled [my
newsletter](http://expertnovice.com) a “lifelong project” not long after I started it. I
called [/mentoring](http://mentoring.is) a “movement” the day I announced it. Commitment
marked a project as something worth talking about, I thought. This was how I would give my ideas escape
velocity.

Escape velocity came, but at a cost. No amount of attention could spur perpetual motion. Once I’d set every
expectation of permanence, disappointment loomed and glowered; inevitable.

Eventually, I started asking myself: *why am I promising permanence?* The answer crept up on me: *because
permanence is better than nothing.* Without the momentum of obligation, I didn’t trust myself to begin
anything in earnest.

The thing is, it never worked. The half-life of obligation is short; the half-life of guilt is long. Promises
never saved one of my side projects, but they clogged many nights and weekends with the gunk of regret.
Something had to change.

My friend [Jamie Wilkinson](/) once told me about a decision he’d made. *No more forever
projects*, he said. *From now on, every project is one-time-only.* Treat beginnings like endings: celebrate
them, document them, let someone else pick up where you leave off. If the project’s worth repeating,
there’s nothing to say you can’t still be the standard-bearer. But at least it’s a choice. By ending
well, you give yourself the freedom to begin again.

These days, all my projects start as experiments. No forceful promises, no forever projects. Gravity seeps
into the things that stick around.