

One of the unexpected side effects of being part of the web industry, for me, has been all the travel.
Speaking at web conferences has allowed me to visit a bunch of other countries, but I’ve also flown between
cities in the US to visit other offices of whomever employed me at the time. It’s one of those things other
people I know seem not to notice, but for me I still rarely board a plane for work without thinking, this
is what professional people do.

And that’s normal travel. Imagine how I feel when that travel includes an upgrade to a class higher than
economy. It’s only happened a handful of times, but each has been a reminder that I Have Done Quite Well For
Myself. But you know something funny about first class? They’ll give you basically as much wine–for
free–as you care to drink, and the wine they give you for free in first class is better than any wine you
can buy in economy.

I am not making this up. I have checked. In first class (or business, or whatever fancy-pants rich people
class you happened to be seated in) there is a nice little pamphlet that introduces the airline’s sommelier,
and some poetic words from this person about the selection of onboard wines they hope you will be pleased
with. In economy, you might get a little of this info in the back of your in-flight magazine, but probably you
won’t because probably the wine available to you at $8 per plastic sippy cup is not wine a professional
sommelier has written poetry about.

I live in Austin, Texas, where it’s been SXSW now for the past ten days. SXSW tends to be a better source of
free beer than free wine, but an invite-only SXSW party is not so different than first class on an airplane.
Or at least it aspires to be. These are supposed to be exclusive, comfortable spaces where key decision makers
can go about their important work while being feted and plied with libations. In practice, though, the
attendees are mostly touts for startups you’ve never heard of ostentatiously flashing their gadgets while
knocking back Lone Star until they do something that would get them reported to HR if their company had
it.

That doesn’t change the fact that every year, people reference the Fear of Missing Out phenomenon in regard
to these parties. People who wouldn’t recognize even the most hyped startups go to great lengths to get
invitations, after the giveaways, the entertainment, and the free beer.

The thing about first class is that it’s pretty good in comparison to economy class. It is not good compared
to being in a nice restaurant somewhere on the ground. It is not good compared to having an entire bed to go
home and sleep in after drinking a couple glasses of hand-selected, poetry-inspiring wine. The thing about
SXSW parties is that people who know better tend to end up congregating in bars where no one is handing out
drink tickets and the friendly person coming over the chat them up is less likely to try and recruit them.

It’s embarrassing how much wealth we have in this industry, and how in spite of that, people are constantly
trying to give us things for free. The system of giving free things only to those who could afford to buy them
with little thought is bizarre anyway, but SXSW always makes it a little more obvious to me. There are
probably a bunch of people in this town who’d love a night out drinking free Lone Star, but they’re never
on the RSVP list. Why do we only direct our magnanimity at each other?