

It might have been due to the poor lighting, or perhaps something in the air. Everyone on the RER E wore the
same expression—identical ashen, grey faces. The young man by the door seemed absorbed, staring at point in
space where I could perceive nothing; there must be something elsewhere that only he could see. As did the
woman in an African dress, seated on the deck below, looking beyond the window panes that didn’t open—and
if they did, they would open out to nothing. So strange that we have these windows on underground trains that
never look out into anything other than the unlit underground guts of a city. Truth to be told, I reminded
myself, the train line goes further above ground beyond one end of Paris. The windows might still serve a
purpose there.

Despite it being clear that everyone on the train had origins elsewhere, either in their own lifetime, or
stretching back generations or centuries, perhaps I was truly the foreigner here. Me, the obvious outsider who
had not yet assimilated into the grim pattern, the unspoken social protocol of the Paris metro. And despite
being fluent enough in French to be able to speak almost *sans accent*, some people would still talk to
me in English. Perhaps because my looks betray my Oriental genetic origins? Or perhaps I am a good excuse for
a bit of language practice?

“Where are you from?” is a common question I get, everywhere, from almost everyone. When I answer
“London”, some people would insist “But where are you *really* from?” And sometimes, I wonder, what
did they want me to say? Japanese? Chinese? Korean? Sometimes, I’d get it straight out: “Are you
Japanese?” To which I’d give my usual answer: “No, I am 25% of the world’s gene pool.” *Try again*.
Sometimes, if I sensed a genuine fascination, I’d make them guess.  The only person who had ever come
close to guessing my origins happened to be language teacher who specialised in correcting accents. Even then,
he couldn’t figure out where I was born, just where I had been. At least, I no longer get told “You
speak very good English!” To date, I speak three flavours of English: Australian, Canadian and British.
There is also the South East Asian English, which I might be able to pull off on a good day. 

“Where are you from?” The truth is, in a manner of speaking, I’m a mutt.

Why does it matter? I sometimes wonder. I can eat a Thai bird’s eye chilli raw; that rules me out from
most Chinese and Japanese origins, for those in the know. I’ve learned to cook French potatoes as well as
any French native. The Canadian in me hands back used crockery over the counter at cafes so I’d leave my
table clean. The Australian in me loves and appreciates all manner of sports, and I still make a
mean [lemon, lime and bitters](/). I eat (and drink) like a European. And whenever I go back to
where I was born, or even wherever I have previously lived, I stand out: I walk differently, talk differently,
think differently. Where am I from? 

Sometimes, while walking in the street, I’d get “*Konichiwa!”* or “*Ni hao!*” shouted at me from
somewhere, by someone, typically male. For many years, my immediate reaction was to get angry. And why
wouldn’t I? After all, I was having it thrown at me all at once: the inherent sexism, the thinly-veiled
racism. Reduced to the colour of my skin, the choice of an examined and cultured life completely dismissed
because I look how I look. The tinge of olive in my skin, my straight black-brown hair, my dark phoenix
eyes. In shops which sell cosmetics, the beauticians would often smile too sweetly and say, “You need
*this,* not *that,* you’re...a little dark.” 

Once, on my way to a conference in Boston, a man shouted at me, “Go back to where you come from!” If only
it were that easy. Then, always, there are those suspicious looks that immigration officers give me whenever I
cross a border as they look for incriminating evidence in the pages of my passport. 

The more thoughtful folks would ask me, “Where is home?”

Many years ago, my father warned me, “No one will claim us as their own. We are foreigners wherever we
go.” It was how I’d learned: home is where I choose. Home is where my love lives, and where my cat chooses
to sleep. It’s not about ethnic or cultural roots, not even about material possessions, but an
impermanent place to retreat to. A sacred source of creative energy that I cultivate, fixed within a finite
space at a particular point in time. And so, “home” has been just the spaces I’ve *made* to be
home. Albeit, on several continents, over the years. I was secretly pleased to learn that my Oriental
ancestors were nomads. It may explain why I never felt settled. The downside? The mistrust, the prejudice, the
subtle expressions, the unapologetic undertone. 

Some months ago I was having a nice chat with an English taxi driver who’d lived in Cambridge all his life.
He had been driving his taxi for 30 years. Keen to mine his local knowledge, I asked him what has changed
most. “Well,” he began. “You can’t tell where people are from these days. Everyone is from
everywhere.”

My nomadic ancestors probably never could have imagined globalisation and what it would bring: a blend of many
things, from many places; a blend of *people*. I am a child of former colonies, of worlds where people
who came to our lands took rather than gave. These were the origins I was born with, and then there is the
person whom I have chosen to become. Perhaps that is my biggest fortune: I was able to choose to be a citizen
of the world. That is my privilege. Unfortunately, there is no passport to match, nor adequate vocabulary in
our languages.

At the bistro in Le Marais where we stopped for lunch, two chatty Parisian women at the next table eyed us and
our musical instruments suspiciously. When I was left alone for a moment, the elder of the two asked,
“*C’est une guitare?”* and pointed her dessert spoon at the bag behind me. 

“*Oui,”* I answered, confirming that it was indeed a guitar.

“*Et celle-là*?” She pointed to the smaller, more ambiguous case next to me. And that?

“*C’est un ukulele*,” I said.

“*C’est quoi un ‘youkoulélé’?*” She glanced at her lunch partner for any available hint: what
is a “ukulele?” The other woman seemed a bit disbelieving, and merely tried to get her mouth
around the word “*ukulele”*. 

The first woman asked again, “*C’est un instrument à cordes*?” Is it a string
instrument? 

“Yes, it’s an instrument with four strings,” I replied in French. “A little easier to play than the
guitar.”

She paused for a moment, absorbing what I had said. *“C’est exotique, alors?”*

*Exotic*. That word. How I hate that word. That word which means you are different, you are the outsider, but
we haven’t found a reason not to like you, because you are still fascinating, not yet threatening. *Exotic*,
a word also used for spices and resources pillaged from the lands near where I was born: pepper, nutmeg, mace,
cloves. And now, palm oil. People had been killed, their lands repeatedly bled dry, their sweat-drenched
labour exploited, for the word “*exotic”*.

*Exotic*. Did she mean the instrument, or did she mean my origins?

“Well, not really, not anymore,” I said, with a slight shrug and a smile.