

I hate airplane bathrooms. I avoid them at all costs, ignoring the constant cry for immediate relief from my
ever expanding bladder as I shift my weight anxiously from my coveted window seat. Don’t do it. Don’t
think about water. Don’t think about a waterfall. Definitely don’t think about the song I made up as a
child to taunt my brother in his moments of need: “Listen to the waterfall! Yellow! Yellow!”. 

I am not sure what I hate most about them. Maybe it’s the fact that as you walk down the aisle, everyone
knows exactly what you are about to do and they are right. You can’t hide it as you begin the parade towards
the world’s smallest closet where you must do your business because you are two Bloody Marys in and you know
a third is required to handle the kid kicking the back of your seat for the remaining 4 hours. 

You check to see if it is occupied. Maybe there is a sign that lights up, maybe it’s a little dial, but you
search for that very red indicator to tell you that what you so desperately need is still just out of arms
reach. It’s open. The door is like an accordion, you pull it back and it folds into itself. You try to walk
in straight on, but realize that won’t work, because, well, you have hips, and oddly enough, so do most
adults. You turn sideways and kinda shuffle in, not really sure how you will manage to turn around. You draw
your arms in close to your chest, shapeshifting momentarily into a T.Rex with your small arms tucked in, and
try to turn around, grazing your ass against the sink, until you find yourself properly turned around. 

You go to sit down. You embrace the awkwardness as there is no room to stretch out, a half collapsed lawn
chair sitting on a toilet that fits one cheek and one cheek only.  You look around and wonder how the
hell people accomplish much greater feats in here and sometimes together. 

And then the moment arrives. 

You must flush. 

And this is when it turns from awkward to scary. What happens after is not entirely clear. Where does it go?
Does it get saved up for one big epic community dumping where everyone was an equal contributor? And if so, is
it possible for it to get full? Would people be denied relief because one person was an overly active
contributor? Or is it released over the ocean—into the jetstream in its golden glory?

Where it goes is one thing. How it goes is another. You stand up, you do everything to prepare yourself, to
create some distance between you and the toilet. You don’t want to be close to it when you flush, for the
fear or getting sucked back into some vortex of dismembered butts by the greedy wet vac is very real and
immediate.  

Every second in an airplane bathroom is an exercise in epic awkwardness. It turns everything we know and
understand about the process on its head. All sense of decorum and grace go out the window in favor of
completion. Shoved in a tiny box 30 000 feet in the air, and suddenly success is simply a clean finish. 

A few minutes later, you leave. The light goes off, an invitation for the next person to feel like a newly
born horse, trying to find their footing as they awkwardly navigate their new parameters.  You walk down
the aisle happy to have it over, happy that although everyone knows what you were doing, they have no idea how
you did it. 

Working in tech sometimes feels like this to me. I know the end goal and the process to get there, but I have
to work out how to properly execute to realize the former with the latter. 

I am always figuring things out, which means I rarely know what the hell I am doing. And this is okay, because
knowing where you are going is so much more important than how. 

If it isn’t a struggle, it isn’t worth the effort. Just like finding relief in an airplane bathroom. 