

It’s been nine months since I gave up caffeine. I never drank coffee; I have the taste buds, and general
sophistication, of a child. Sugary energy drinks were my vice.

Caffeine had taken over my workflow. You know it’s bad when you don’t feel you can start work until
you’ve had your breakfast can of Red Bull, and a second serving is required after lunch to get you through
the day. 

MY work was planned around my caffeine hits; jobs that required critical thinking, design and writing, would
be queued up to make the most of the sudden burst of creative energy. Admin and menial tasks would be saved
for the come-down, when I couldn’t focus on much for more than five minutes. If I needed to knuckle down and
solve a tricky problem outside of my “up” time, I’d need some extra cans of energy. I didn’t feel I
was capable of anything without them.

Last year, I went cold turkey, giving caffeine up completely on the 27th of August. And stuck to it. My sugar
addiction held strong, and without caffeinated soft drink alternatives, my alcohol intake went up by a couple
of units. But I’ve not wavered on energy drinks. I’ve not had a single can.

My work is now scheduled in a more reasonable way. Porridge is enough as my breakfast gets me started in the
morning. I can work longer days and when more focus is required, I just fire up some metal on Spotify.

It was really hard to give up something I believed was responsible for all my best work. I didn’t get the
headaches that people had warned me about but I was SO sluggish. Lethargy doesn’t begin to describe it. I
wondered if I’d ever be able to produce good design work or writing again. It was impossible to
concentrate.

There are still days when I wish I still had caffeine to fall back on. After exercising on the weekends, I can
lose afternoons to naps, but I’m learning to do the right thing by my sleepy body. Every time I wish I had
an energy drink to pick me up, I remember how I didn’t just want, but *needed* caffeine last year. And now I
just feel balanced without it.