

I’d started writing some notes for this a while ago. Trying to think of all the events that had shaped who I
am and maybe find something relevant to pass on about them. Looking at it, it felt incredibly self indulgent
but there was one which I thought I’d share.



Although I was born in Yorkshire, we moved to Kent when I was a baby, and so I considered myself a Southerner
(as much as a child of my age thought about these things).  When I was 5 or 6 years old, we moved from a
small village up to Huddersfield in Yorkshire. From my point of view at the time, I was totally confused about
what was going on and mainly resented it…the way a child of that age might.

My dad with his long ginger hair, passion for music, hot curries and beer somehow ended up working for the
international division of a major bank. The idea of him being made to wear a suit in a formal setting like
that just doesn’t work. I also understand the commute to London wasn’t a lot of fun.

We lived in a little village, outside the M25, my mum at home with me and my brother. We had our network of
friends and I’d not long started at the local school. I remember not really understanding that we wouldn’t
be going back. Our belongings went on their way. That space that used to be our home, vacant. I can’t be
sure if I remember the actual journey up North but the sense of the unknown and feeling daunted by it all is
clear.

I don’t think we’d seen the house we moved to before arriving there. It was a good size but out of the way
for most things, making it affordable for a family of four of unknown income. My mum didn’t work at this
point so the business had to work.

The house had damp issues, it was rented so we could never really make it our own. The first shop closed. My
brother and I got on with our new school(s). Eventually I suppose things stabilised and he opened a shop in
the town centre, ‘Revolution Records’. 

So why did we move? The situation of having a ‘proper job’ at the bank didn’t suit my dad. Why not sell
up and move to a town we didn’t know to start a second-hand record shop with a friend? Certainly at the age
I was, it made little sense.

What I realised as time went on was that my mum had never wanted to move. What was wrong with having a
‘proper job’ and staying in the community she’d forged relationships in? At the time she was more
reserved and didn’t express this in a way that would have changed plans. The fact she couldn’t drive then
made it harder to do things with us kids. Taking us to and from school or out and about on weekends was all by
limited bus service and the extent we could walk. This led, I think, to a sense of isolation. We weren’t on
the top of a mountain or anything but I think it felt like it from time to time.

The business swallowed all the hours it could get from my dad so I don’t remember him from those years as
much as I’d like. If not in the shop, he’d take stock out to record fairs and university halls around the
UK. These are the things you sometimes need to do to make a business work.

We’d moved house closer to where we went to school — finally one where my brother and I could play out in
the street with our friends. From time to time we’d notice the difference in lifestyles between us and the
others. 

At weekends we’d go down to the shop. I’d help clean up a collection that someone had sold on, looking for
imperfections in the vinyl, carefully cleaning labels from the sleeves. It’s easy for me to romanticise
about this now but I know as a child the last thing you want to be doing when all your friends are out playing
is be wiping records. The building was fairly big so me and my brother took advantage of this and made space
ships, cars or hideouts out of the boxes used to cart collections around. This was a great time for invention
and imagination. Flexi-discs were thrown like frisbees, scratched records destroyed in interesting ways. It
wasn’t all boring!

Being a nipper in a record shop in the 80’s, there were strange band posters on the walls, weirdly dressed
adults flicking through the racks. I’ll hold my hand up; at times I was a little bit freaked out by some of
it. Over the years though I learned who the bands were on the posters (art used for bands like The Cramps, The
Cure, Iron Maiden and Metallica stays with me) and to recognise the kinds of fashion that roughly equated with
genres of music. For a period, we had second hand instruments on sale too, which meant they might be at home
for a while first. (I bet my mum must’ve loved the period we briefly had a drum kit in the lounge!)

I think we did alright. My mum learned to drive and went to work as we grew older. She blossomed and I guess
in some ways started to find out who she was aside from our mum. She’d made friends through work, was mobile
and far more confident, which was great to see.

Years later, a shopping centre was planned to be built over the street where the shop stood. My dad cashed out
and went on to start a different business, selling home-brewing equipment and ingredients with bottled beers
from around the world (when seeing these was considered quite rare). From this business, he did well enough
and ended up moving on to be a wholesaler. I suppose as a result of these years and all the change and
challenges within them, a fundamental difference in opinion under the surface, their relationship suffered
which eventually led to them divorcing.



So why tell you this? Writing for The Pastry Box with such a wide remit is a great opportunity to try and
think outside of the work we do as developers and designers and in my case (and some of the other
contributors) feel a bit reflective to see if there’s anything about my set of experiences might have some
value to anyone else. It is weird writing about yourself but trying to translate your personal experiences
into words is an interesting exercise in itself.

So what do I feel, reflecting on all this? The fact that leaving a stable income and becoming self employed
can be really hard but you can make it work with perseverance. You often need to put in a lot of hours, away
from your family and that can be difficult from all sides. There will be hard times but it can be worth it to
be your own boss.

I was freelance for a few years and I didn’t go about it in a sensible way to start with. I have a family
and had only one job lined up and no savings. Scary. Maybe these past experiences made it alright to be scary?
My dad is a fairly quiet guy but managed to get himself out there and do all these things so maybe I could
overcome being shy and slightly introverted? Going freelance and not knowing where work would come from turned
out to be a great catalyst for making connections, figuring it out and try to work out how to at least appear
more outgoing.

Some of the first gigs I had after that initial piece of work were just horrible so I tried to get to know
people involved in digital scene in the Manchester. Though I didn’t have many followers at the time, I used
Twitter to sort a fairly regular and informal lunch near where I lived to see who’d show up. Sometimes
it’d just be me. Maybe one other person might come through to one time where there was about ten of us.
Daunting but it worked out. It’s not easy to step out of your comfort zone but it can be worth it.

On reflection, in some ways I’m still not too sure how I feel about the move and the years after. I think
there’s been enough time gone by for me to really appreciate aspects of them and for others, time has dulled
the less good bits. The strange sense I have of identity might be part of it, which I find weird as I was so
young when we moved. I don’t have full rich memories of Kent and spent most of my life up North but feel
like a Southerner or more specifically, out of place, not from either. Maybe those first few years down there
act as some kind of emotional anchor? 

While around me, friend’s parents appeared to have ‘proper jobs’ (that phrase again!) it felt like we
were kind of renegades and a little unconventional, through my point of view back then. Times have changed. To
work for yourself isn’t so unusual, especially in the web industry. Maybe it taught me about the ebb and
flow of income? That we didn’t need to try and keep up with friends which maybe had more than us? Perhaps
stability and predictability aren’t that important to me? 



I have a lot of memories of music from the time, of record shops as they used to be, the smell and sound of
vinyl, the art accompanying albums and tours. All through my teenage years I’d hunt out record shops
wherever I could and trawl the racks for the chance of finding something unusual or missing from my
collection. As much as I’ve loved so much about the web, it’s impact alongside the closing of many
independent stores has totally changed this landscape. You can be on a bus and on your phone find a new
artist, check through their discography and buy an album before you reach your destination. Shops like my
dad’s were more than just for retail, you’d see people that’d just come to chat and hang out, maybe ask
for recommendations and have tunes played in the shop to figure out what they might like to take home. When
bands played at the university, they’d often stop by the shop too. In some ways I feel like a dinosaur with
these memories that I know people born since the web became commonplace will be unlikely to relate to but
I’m grateful for them.

I’ve often wondered if I would’ve preferred it any other way. I’m sure I did at times. I really didn’t
enjoy school, and the hard times we shared as a family leading to my parents splitting up weren’t what
we’d have chosen but these things make us who we are. I’m a firm believer it’s what you do with the
result of these experiences that help define you, not necessarily the experiences themselves.