

Well here we are.

I’ve got one shot at this. After all, only the smartest, most influent designers and assorted web people get
to write on this site. This ain’t Medium anymore, so I better bring my A-game!

Let’s start things off with an anecdote, those are always crowd-pleasers. When I was 17 years old, I used to
work as a dishwasher in a grubby diner. Or maybe it was a small neighborhood grocer, or a shop that made
hand-crafted birdfeeders. Who cares. 

Anyway, the point is that while I was working there, something mildly interesting happened that taught me a
valuable life lesson. And this lesson is still useful to this day whenever I need to fill up space in a blog
post.

OK, anecdote out of the way, now let’s hit’em with a few controversial-yet-safe opinions. 

For example, did you know [Dribbble](http://dribbble.com) is hurting our industry? It’s true. Because of
Dribbble, designers are now obsessing over weather apps and custom lettering instead of curing cancer and
saving children from burning buildings like they used to. 

But don’t take my word for it. [Here’s a
link](http://www.plosone.org/article/info:doi/10.1371/journal.pone.0035633) to a vaguely related psychology
study on some university site that you won’t bother to read. It turns out that 83% of the study’s 12 test
subjects displayed a certain behavior, proving without a doubt that my conclusions can safely be extended to
every human being on this planet. 

Talking about the planet, did I already mention that we need to save it? Because we do. It’s our
responsibility as designers to save the world, no matter how many Kickstarters we need to fund to do
it. 

I just want to leave the world a little better and wiser than I found it. For example, yesterday I spent a
couple hours writing a post to explain the differences between Interaction Design and User Experience Design.
This is the kind of serious question that is too often left unaddressed by the media. 

Hey, this writing thing is easier than I thought. I feel like I could go on and on. But I probably
shouldn’t, after all we all got places to be and check in at. 

So in closing, let me leave you with this little-known Steve Jobs quote:

> Good design
> is not just how it looks. Good design is as little design as possible. 